hello I'm Lucy gray the Israeli military
says its forces have advanced deep into
the Gaza Strip the IDF said a joint
action of ground sea and air forces had
seen troops break through Hamas front
lines of Defense in the north of the
Gaza Strip and Israel forces were at the
gates of Gaza City the Palestinian red
presentant says overnight loud
explosions and shelling could be heard
in the city including close to Al's
Hospital meanwhile more people are
hoping to leave Gaza today following
International efforts to open the Raffa
Crossing to Egypt Gaza border officials
said the crossing would continue to
operate some 7 and a half thousand
foreign passport holders would be able
to leave Gaza over about 2 weeks
Palestinians who've been wounded are
also expected to be taken to Egypt where
they'll be treated in a new field
Hospital our Middle East correspondent
yolan Nell has our first report which
contains material you may find upsetting
gazans call it their gateway to the
world finally yesterday the Rafa
Crossing opened for the first time in
more than 3 weeks some foreign citizens
were allowed to leave the war zone for
Egypt including some Britains though
details weren't given but many others
are still waiting so this is the third
time to came to the border and nothing
happened as they're told your name is
not there so I have to go back to the
school to the Shel call the shelter
waiting for the bom at the other end of
the Gaza Strip in jabalia more Israeli
strikes Hamas says nearly 200 people
were killed here in 2
days and across the region the
humanitarian crisis deepens the head of
the biggest UN agency in Gaza entered to
see for himself I was shock by the fact
that everyone there was asking for food
food was asking for water we I saw
almost every children trying to express
their way that they need to eat they
need to have
water but the war continues relentlessly
24/7 it's almost 4 weeks since Hamas
gunman stormed the border and killed
1,400 Israelis Hamas is designated as a
terrorist organization by the UK
government here the Israeli Army shows
what it says are the weapons used
against its citizens in the 7th of
October attacks pull out the safety
throw this into a room close the door
shut and uh it takes the temperature
inside the room to 3,000 de during the
explosion it burns incinerates
everything inside the room nothing comes
out siren warning of incoming Rockets
interrupted the event near Tel Aviv when
Hamas launched its attack a retired
Israeli General Noam tibon drove down
from from Tel Aviv to rescue his son's
family using a rifle from a dead Israeli
soldier he fought his way towards their
home this is the biggest
failure in the history of the state of
Israel it was a military failure it was
an intelligence
failure and it was a failure of the
government with both sides now preparing
for a long difficult war in Gaza those
who are making it out of Rafa are the
lucky few most are left to face the
fighting feeling nowhere is safe yoland
Nell BBC News
Jerusalem well let's speak now to Anna
Foster our correspondent who's in
southern Israel and the air strikes
continue and particularly um let's talk
about jabalia the refugee camp that we
were Hearing in Yul land's piece there
that there have been more strikes there
and the UN Human Rights a agency talking
about how this could am amount to war
crimes
so we had confirmation uh late yesterday
that there had been another Israeli
strike on jabalia uh and we'd seen two
the day before one on the refugee camp
area which is a lot of people packed
into a very small space and one on the
town now Israel say that they in those
three separate air strikes that they
destroyed uh Hamas command and control
infrastructure they say that they um
they killed at least one senior Hamas
Commander and and various Hamas cells um
the problem is of course that they are
working in these builtup civilian
neighborhoods now the Israel Defense
Forces told people living in Gaza to
move South particularly in the north of
Gaza because they said that would be the
focus of their operations that would be
the battlefield but for many people they
weren't able to to move South and for
those who did and found themselves
displaced with no homes here living in
tent Sheltering where they could in the
streets no food no water in this
desperate humanitarian situation we know
that many people chose to go back to the
north again and there have been
questions raised about whether or not
Israel should be targeting these
civilian areas now Israel says that
Hamas are using those civilians as human
Shields and therefore in order to try
and eradicate Hamas from Gaza which is
their state at aim after those attacks
on October the 7th they need to focus on
the command and control centers you know
the places where Hamas infrastructure is
both on the ground and buried underneath
it uh but the problem is when you think
of the size of Gaza how small it is a
lot of that is wrapped into civilian
areas and that is why we are seeing
after these strikes these numerous uh
civilian casualties often as well of
women and children and President Biden
has now said that there has to be a
pause in fighting to facilitate the
release of hostages at least uh but
Israel still pushing back on any idea of
pausing things isn't
it yeah Israel are very clear that that
this is a an existential fight for the
the security and and the existence of
the Israeli Nation you know they they
have been pointing to other countries
around the world and they say when there
have been similar barbaric attacks on
their soil then these countries these
countries push back um the problem is
with with Gaza as we've been reflecting
is that it is as we were saying a very
small very small place with a very dense
civilian population it's not a place
that people can choose to leave if you
think of of War zones in other parts of
the world often the civilian population
when War breaks out have the opportunity
to leave but of course in Gaza um access
in and out is controlled by Israel um so
the more than 2 million people who who
live there they can't actually leave
Gaza at all the best that they can do is
move to another part of the strip away
from the fighting and you were talking
there about the raff of Crossing you
know Yan's report we saw some people
starting to leave foreign passport
holders some people with duel
nationalities but as yoland was
reflecting there that is really only a
very very tiny fraction of the number of
people who are stuck inside Gaza during
this this ongoing at times constant
bombardment thanks very much Anna Foster
for us there in southern Israel let's go
live now to Aman and we can speak to
Toby frier spokesperson for Unice I
suppose that is the one positive that's
happened yesterday was this 400 people
able to leave Gaza and among that some
injured people and and this setting up
of a field Hospital in Egypt what can
you tell us about that
yeah I mean it's it's very hard to find
positives obviously at the moment but I
think you know UNICEF welcomes the you
know opening of the Border particularly
for Urgent uh medical cases and and
especially for children you know we
welcome that we've been supporting the
the government of Egypt providing some
medical supplies for that fied Hospital
close to the ra border crossing but what
we really need to see is obviously a
stop to to the killing of children and
the maming of children which continues
to go on and we've seen the the Carnage
recently in in jabalia um and and that's
really our number one goal is to keep
pushing for that immediate humanitarian
Seas far as the UN Secretary General
said UNICEF has said numerous times and
and we keep saying that day in day day
out because the new normal is really
horrific right now and can you tell us
how and who is deciding uh who gets to
leave who is it that's going in and
deciding which injured people are being
able to be taken to this field Hospital
in
Egypt well it's very difficult for me to
provide you know specifics on who's
coming in coming out uh but I think the
number one thing is that urgent cases
particularly children are able to go out
and get the critical medical support
that they need and the reason is the
medical facilities inside the Gaza Strip
are at such strain already you know
massively massive strain limited access
to medical supplies we heard from the
World Health Organization the cancer
hospital is is really uh you know you
running out of fuel almost shutting down
so it's a Breaking Point essentially
inside the Gaza Strip so any relief at
least for for very for injured civilians
injured children is is welcome I see
that msf Midtown s Frontier has got a
few people who left yesterday some of
their staff working there left yesterday
they're know they're regrouping and and
uh getting more people ready to go in if
they can get them in are you getting the
sense that Aid workers inside Gaza are
wanting to
leave well I mean you se you know in un
we have a rotation policy for
international staff members uh you know
to bring new people in when you can to
to to Fresh up new new uh individuals to
support the humanitarian response the
number one thing really is is as we say
is sort of around staying and delivering
because now the needs are so immense you
know across the Gaza Strip to do
whatever we can on the ground with our
staff in the area to provide that access
to lifesaving supplies you know medical
equipment water particularly and
sanitation hygiene kits Etc to get
particularly to the shelters that are so
densely populated right now and do you
know anything about how negotiations are
going in terms of uh the discuss
discussions about a possible pause to
allow the humanitarian Aid workers and
more Aid in uh do you get any insight
into that I mean obviously we've heard
from President Biden today talking about
how there has to be a pause he was
talking about it so that the the
hostages could be brought out or got out
somehow um but do you know how those
negotiations are going at
all well I mean we do advocacy with
whoever we can to get a pause to get a
humanitarian ceasefire uh that's the
number one thing right now because we
also need to scale up uh the life-saving
supplies that can get inside the Gaza
Strip so some Aid has been as we say you
know trickling in but it's nowhere near
enough I me you and secret General said
it's completely inadequate um and and
that's so absolutely vital that we can
scale up those numbers of trucks coming
in with with the life saving supplies
medical equipment water because the the
issue now is that children are being
killed injured every day but also
there's the threats of outbreaks of
diseases and other issues arising you
know staff members talk about their
children being forced to drink salty
water and suffering from dehydration
diarrhea Etc so it's it's Absol urgent
now that we scale up that that access
okay well thank you very much for
talking to us Toby fricker there from
UNICEF